www.8fingereddie.com In conversation with Fredo and Kamakshi (around 2004)

Kamakshi: How did you find Anjuna? Were you the first one that came here?
Eddie: I had a house before in 63, 64, 65, at Colva beach. Anybody could stay, there was food there, you didn't have to pay for the food, you didn't have to work. If you wanted you could stay, if you didn't want you didn't have to... And then the house became Vince's bar, it was right at the end of Colva beach. So I had to look for another place, there were no houses around there, so I couldn't have a house like this where everybody could stay, you know, Jack and all these people said to me: "Eddie, Eddie, we have all stayed in your house last year, this year you can stay in all our houses." We were then in Baga, i was staying at one house one day, another house the next day, and another next. That's how I had met this Japanese girl who said: "i was in Anjuna beach, and it's beautiful!" I said: "Are there any houses there?" "Oh yes, there's houses," she said. "Jack, I heard there are houses over there, go and see if you can find one", I said. That night he came home with the key to a house near Jo Banana's.
I was 40 already when I came here. I was born in 24. All the freaks were 20 years old (Laughs) They thought I was enlightened because I was old. I thought: "Man, I'm just old I've more experience than you, that's all. I'm not enlightened" I didn't even know what enlightenment was. I said what is it anyhow. They tell me this and this and this, and I think some of it sounds like me, but I'm not sure. But a year later I found out that I was definitely not enlightened (Laughs). I used to dance to Indian music, by sitting down. I'd just move my arms. Then i'd dance to rock and roll standing up, and moving with the body and stuff. But one day my body started to move by itself. I couldn't believe it! So much energy. I was making no effort. My arms are going around, and i'm looking around. "What's going on here?" I didn't know what the hell was going on. And then, my spine was moving like a snake. Wow ...  And then there was a light, in my room ... a light! And I'm beginning to see the light. You don't begin to see the light. The light is there, or its not there. Here it was a light, man! A light like the sun - in my room! I didn't close my eyes, because if I closed my eyes it was there, if I opened my eyes it was there
Fredo: But everybody is, everything is made out of particles of light. So when there is light coming, all of a sudden the light comes through the wall, because even the colors and the whole vision, the whole perception is made out of light. 
Eddie: This light is inside you and outside you. So you can't say inside me, outside me - it's all the same. Man, this is the source of all life, this is where all life comes from. And if it's in me. then it has to be in everybody else. So I'm no better than anybody, and nobody is better than me. We are all the same. Some people are closer to the light than other people, but that doesn't matter, we are all the same. So from here, down here, until the right rib I felt a rope, an invisible rope pulling me into the sun. and the sun is pulling me in like a fish. Now I can say: "I'm not afraid to die" I can say: "I'm not afraid of going insane", but my mind is saying, "Man, if I go in there, I might not come out" But its aaahh... the light is power, man, power, not bliss and this and that... its power! If I go in there, I might burn my brain out. I'll become insane. Like you see a lot of insane people around ashrams, you know, they've blown their minds out. Then I used to think to myself: "Man, this is it. This is my chance. But why does this happen to me now, when my life is becoming interesting..." Pow! The light goes out, just like that. Life's interesting, huh? (Laughs) See, you've got to be finished with everything before you can get enlightened. You've got to be finished with love, you've got to be finished with girlfriends and boyfriends, you've got to be finished with family, you've got to be completely hopeless. And was i completely hopeless? Uh-huh. Well i didn't have any hope in anything, because i didn't believe in anything. See, i was older than all you guys, huh, so i felt like  a dirty old man to have sex with 20 year old girls when i'm 40. So i decided forget the sex thing, but the drugs i put the drugs away. So i had nothing to hold me back. But when this thing happened, i was completely free to go. You see, other things like love and family and this and that will keep you from getting enlightened. You will choose family or you will choose love, before you will choose enlightenment. Enlightenment means you have to die, physically. You have to die, and then some of you can come back. But you can't decide that if you die, you have no choice, either you get sent back or you stay. So, i didn't care. I had my chance. I blew it. I had an interest in being around, to see what was happening. And it didn't matter, doesn't matter. It's good enough the way it is.
Kamakshi: What is enlightenment?
Eddie: Enlightenment is when you die. You have to be dead before you can get enlightened.
Fredo: You come to the source.
Eddie: Yeah, you have nothing to tell you, you have no allegiance to anything or anybody. You are alone. That's one thing i realized too, it's scary in a way. You alone in the whole universe, you're alone with the light. You can't lie, you can't say. I'm not afraid. But you are. There's no lying, there's no way to get around it, it's a moment of truth. Cannot fool the light, man, you can just fool yourself. You are the light, you are the light, you are the light, everybody is the light. Only sometimes i feel separate, sometimes i feel the light's there, why can't i join the light? To join the light you have to be dead. Dead to all those things that people like.
Fredo: You are ready, you don't need your body anymore.
Eddie: You don't need anything. You don't need anybody else, because every man, every woman has an opposite sex inside them. You are not only man or woman - you are both. So when you join the light, the male meets the female - and they're joined. They call this the marriage inside. You don't need anyone outside yourself. It's same with everybody, within both women and men. Ladies have male... if a woman doesn't have any idea what maleness is, she is a very dangerous woman. If a man doesn't have any idea of what a female is, he is nowhere. We all have some knowledge of what the other sex is. 
Fredo: Basically we are like female energy and male energy at the same time.
Eddie: Yeah, we are both. If we didn't have both, we'd be monsters. If you were only male, you'd be a monster. If you'd be only female, you'd be a female monster.
Kamakshi: Did you ever go to Koregaon Park, Poona and meet Osho?
Eddie: I was there for three-four months in 76. Surati took me there. I was going to stay in Goa and she said: "Eddie, you don't want to stay here. Come to my place, i have a nice place"
Fredo: Laxmi Vilas. I lived there also.
Eddie: Surati though wanted to take me to the ashram. I said: "i'm not going to the ashram". "Oh, you don't have to go to the ashram" So i stayed in Laxmi Vilas for about three months, four months. It was a good scene in those days, the whole place was full of freaks.
Kamakshi: And did you go to the ashram?
Eddie: No
Kamakshi: Not attracted at all?
Eddie: I liked him as a person. He knew what he was doing. Yeah, yeah. I knew people who knew him in the very beginning when they used to go to Juhu beach and do this: "Hoo hoo", and all this stuff.
Kamakshi: Dynamic meditation?
Eddie: Yeah, that was a good time, because you could talk to him. You could talk to him as you could talk to me, as anybody, but then he became big, big, big. Then you couldn't talk to him anymore.
Fredo: But it was very strong in Poona. It was very strong in the beginning when i came there. I wasn't really sure. I said how could one man be like.. like that! You know, it took me ten years to understand that he was actually very simple. Lot of people didn't look at the simple side of it.
Kamakshi: He did a huge experiment with people, with consciousness. He was too ahead of his time, nobody could understand what he was talking about.
Fredo: He was on a different level. Now whatever he said is actually normal.
Eddie: Oh, yeah. He was a well read man. He knew everything. I used to see these blobs coming from Germany or someplace. And man, after a little bit staying there and beating each other up.. (Laughter) And ... roar!
Kamakshi: Something came out?
Eddie: Yeah-yeah, something came out. No, they became something.
Fredo: Encounter groups people got into.
Eddie: They used to have encounter. Encounter, where you beat each other up.
Fredo: Sometimes people were heavy and they were fighting.
Eddie: Broken arms, everyday, man! Ambulance was coming and taking people to the hospital. Broken legs, broken arms and the toughest people were the girls, the women. You know, it there was something they didn't like, all of a sudden they got into the other stuff. The guys are trying to be spiritual. "Come on, baby, lets..." And the girls are going. (Laughs). Everything was reversed.
Fredo: It's not like that anymore. Then it was very alive, the spirit was alive. People got into meditation - maybe let's try that, you know. And people were into that, something new - it was like a total difference.
Kamakshi: You used to run a kitchen where everybody was welcome to come and eat...
Eddie: Yeah, That house is where Jo Banana's is now. (well-known Anjuna restaurant). We used to go there to get our fruits and vegetables. In the morning we'd make fruit salad and some kind of cereal - wheat or something, and eat the two together. Late afternoon, we'd eat vegetables and rice, and sometimes I'd make sweet rice too. We were doing all the cooking, so we didn't need restaurants or anything. We just did shopping, and I would cook, and then we would eat. 
Fredo: Then you would send Jo out to get bananas... 
Eddie: Yeah, that's how we got his name! One morning Spotty Dick... Remember Spotty Dick? Anyway, he said: "I'm going to go get the fruits for the breakfast. I'm going to Jo Banana's". That's how he got the name - Jo Banana's. 
Fredo: You used to make food for a hundred people... 
Eddie: Well 40, 50, 60. You never knew how many, but it didn't matter. If too many people came, so we got less... 
Kamakshi: You also started the flea market in Anjuna... 
Eddie: In 75
Kamakshi: How did that come about? 
Eddie: Some people came to me and said: "Hey Eddie, how come there is no flea market here?" I said: "What's a flea market?" (Laughter) And they told me, so I went to see the boys at the house. I said: "Do you think we should have a flea market here?" They said: "Yeah that s a good idea " I said: "Giuliano. Giuliano, make a sign Flea Market". The next Lover's day, what's that called Valentine's Day, we had a flea market. That was the first one in 75. I've seen some t-shirts, some people were wearing them: 'Anjuna Flea Market 1975'
Kamakshi: So it started just like that? 
Eddie: Yeah, just like that. Only freaks came to the first few flea markets, it wasn't a regular thing. Then we'd make another one on some other auspicious day. People gave things away, or it was only free - it was like a party. 
Fredo: And there were parties already? In that time parties had started?
Eddie Yeah, yeah. Not on that scale, not on that big scale that we had later. Yeah, it was usually like drums and bongos, people playing guitars, dancing around a big fire... 
Fredo: And then 76 came and it was like everybody was here. Big music scene 
Eddie: Oh yeah, it grew fast then 
Fredo: We had a stage on Anjuna beach in 76-77 
Eddie: That was before any Indian people came, there were no Indians making food in the flea market. No nothing. There were only freaks 
Fredo: The chai shops
Eddie: Maybe the one chai shop or something, some neighbor decided to make some tea.
Kamakshi: There's something about Anjuna, isn't it? It's very intense. Some people say it's the high iron content in the earth here. What's going on? 
Eddie: Here? I don't know what's going on (Laughs) Whatever it is, it's good - for me. I don't know if it's good for everybody, but for me it's good If I could think of a better place. I would go there. I can't think of a better place. It's not like it used to be, it's not as free as it used to be 
Fredo: But before there was no law, everything was 
Eddie: See that's the thing. There's no boss here, there's nobody who says you've got to do this and you've got to do that. Man, it's so free - you wake up in the morning, you don't have to do anything unless you want to do it. Nobody telling you to brush the floor, you got to do this, you got to... aaaahh. That's the good thing, and community. You know, if you get hurt or something, there are so many people here who will take care of you, they'll go out of their way to take you to the hospital or whatever. That's great. That's what's missing in the West in many places, there's no communal feeling, the neighbors, they don't dig each other, nobody even knows who their neighbors are, nobody trusts their neighbors. And it's nice to have some place where you can trust somebody. And if you can't trust them, okay, so you find out you were wrong. But so what, there are so many other people around. That's the communal feeling, that's why people keep coming back. They want to get out of that living in a room, in a flat, with a lock on the door, blah blah blah 
Fredo: In the beginning when we came here, all the doors were open, you could go into any house, there were friends, there were no walls around the houses, no bars on the windows . You would come here and people would say hello to you: "Hello, what's your name?" And then you were accepted. And then there was this big music scene starting also. And Eddie, he would come to every party, he comes early morning, dancing, and he is in the middle of the party... Everybody, lots of people were living in huts then, the beaches were like a village of huts ...
Eddie: Yeah, nobody was paying rent or anything like that
Fredo: Nobody was paying rent, you just buy yourself some bamboo sticks, you had some guys building for you, they did it all for you with coconut rope and palm leaves, everybody found himself a place. Not many people in the houses in the beginning. Vagator was also totally like that. It was like this in 77 when I came
Eddie: When people started living in houses, it became a bourgeois scene.
Kamakshi: Also trance has flowered in Goa. That's Anjuna again. It always attracts a lot of creative beautiful revolutionary people?
Fredo: Techno came in the middle of the 80's - you had New Wave, you had Punk, and then came Trance. I was organizing many parties. First the parties were all live music, and then all of a sudden at the end of the 70's there was a big drug scene. And then people were tired of looking at musicians on stage nodding out, you know. People wanted to dance. And then started the new era. It was the beginning of techno, we still had Yellow and Blondie and Pat Benaton... Then all of sudden Rajaram came around the end of the 80's. And then people started to make the music. In the beginning we were just collecting, the DJs collected the nice music, we moved to different beaches, to Vagator, all over, started to make parties.
Eddie: We were making our own tracks too.
Fredo: That was with Rajaram, when Rajaram came here...
Eddie: No, before Rajaram. We would take the dub track, you know, the rhythm track, and then add voices and music on top of it. And that's how we started making Goa music.
Fredo: No, in the beginning was Rajaram, and then you had these groups like.
Eddie: No, no, no, Rajaram came later. 
Fredo: No, he was the first one when we start to make the music, when people start to make the music. Then we had Juno Reactor, we had Total Eclipse, and after that Rajaram, the Infinity Project, and then Bansi and Riktam came here... 
Kamakshi: Eddie, you have also been a musician? 
Eddie: Yeah, bass player, yeah  dug-dug, dug-dug, when bass was like this, not like this. I quit in 1950, I stopped playing
Fredo: You were in the jazz scene, no? 
Eddie: Yeah, before you were born.
Fredo: No. I was born in '47. First was jazz, then came Rock and Roll, then we had New Wave, Punk, and then slowly we got into trance. Actually trance was not really made here. But here in Goa, people were playing the nice kind of tracks, you know. What they had was industrial techno .. 
Eddie: Yeah, Frontline Assembly
Fredo: They were from Belgium. Front 242. Yeah, but they were very tough, like boom, boom, boom Then all of a sudden people started to mellow out and began to play Goa Trance. The people started to make this music here... 
Eddie: Now everybody makes it in their home. People can make any kind of music they want in their home. 
Kamakshi: Where I live in Poona, there's a village not so far away, and every time at weddings and festivals they play trance, it's gone into the ...
Fredo: ...into the locals here. Yeah, in Bombay, for Ganesh festival, you have trance DJs playing on these big trucks and everybody is dancing. An Indian friend of mine just came by and he said listen to this: "Sounded like a trance group". He said it was a Bollywood singer about 45 years old standing there in a sari, with the music just like perfect trance. But, you know, something, even on television people talk about trance, that it's destructive and this and that, but then on the commercials many times - boom, they have this music. It's something subliminal, you know, it works on your heartbeat.. 
Eddie: On the speed's too slow, unless you have the heartbeat of a child though, while he's asleep or something
Kamakshi: Do you feel the Goa Spirit will survive the commercialization? The authorities have such a problem with so many of the things here, they harass the tourists, try to stop the parties, the markets. Do you feel it will survive, become more resolute? 
Eddie: Anything that makes money survives. The market survives, yeah?
Fredo: It became an industry, the techno, the clothes - Trance Fashion
Kamakshi: Yeah, it's an organic part of the Goa experience. I get surprised that they want to crush what people come here for. You could go just about anywhere in the world if you only want to go to clubs 
Eddie: But some things like we were talking about, you can't buy with money. You can't buy neighbors, good neighbors with money. You can't buy nice scenes with money, you have to have people who think like you do. Like when some people ask me: "Who's your family? Where's your family?" I say: "My family is in Goa". I mean my brothers and sisters, they wouldn't understand what I'm doing: "What are you doing? You're not making any money. You're living in India like a bum" But people who are in India already, they know what I'm doing, because they're doing what I'm doing. So it's more my family than my blood family.
Fredo: The Goa family... Things are changing fast. Before when we came here, it was like everybody had dropped out. Now the whole new generation is the opposite, nobody wants to drop out.
Eddie: That didn't last long actually - dropping out. Enough people wanted to get rich. Stay in there and make that bread, man. They thought by the time you turn 30, you have to put on a suit and tie and get a job and become straight. They never realized there are other possibilities - you can become a bum, you know.
Fredo: Now people come by planes, before people were hitchhiking and going overland. Now the whole world got more covered, it's easier even in the working atmosphere. 
Eddie: Yeah, they were willing to take chances, they were willing to go to India without any money, hitchhike to Delhi - from somewhere in Europe to Delhi, with no money in their pocket, come to India and beg 
Fredo: There was more sharing in that time 
Eddie: Nobody comes overland anymore. You can tell the difference between people who came overland and people who just flew in. Because if you came overland, you had to go through many countries  before you get here. You had to get used to Turks, you had to get used to Afghans, you had to get used to Pakistanis, before you get used to North Indians, before you got to South India - a complete different experience. Coming overland then you met people and they invited you to their homes, or you had dinner with them or you did this and you did that, more understanding of what's going on here, you see. Just flying in, flying out, you don't see much. In fact, Mrs. Gandhi at that time said: "We have two types of visitors in our country. There are these people who come and they stay, they rent a houseboat, they have binoculars, and they look at everything. And then we have the other people, who come here, and they just have sneakers on their feet, and they walk around and meet people. We would like that second type, much better" 
Kamakshi: Wow, she said that
Eddie: Following year she said one of the three major problems of India was the hippie problem (Laughs) 
Kamakshi: So much for that..
Eddie: The hippie problem... Though there were lots of hippies coming with no money, and lots of thefts, stealing, getting by...
Kamakshi: But also a change in people, in their perspective, in their life.
Fredo: Yeah life is changing, it's not staying the same 
Eddie: There were not many couples when we first came... 
Kamakshi: Oh yeah?
Eddie: Everybody was on their own, then couples came in, and it became kind of bourgeois (In a nasal whiny voice): "Ah you can't do like this, you can't feed all those people, you're feeding thieves." I fed everybody, anybody who came, I didn't care. You steal, I don't care, it's your business, you steal, you murder, you do this or that. You need food, you take it. But other people: "You're feeding all these people, you're keeping them here, blah, blah, blah..." It became more and more bourgeois. I couldn't do it any more
Fredo: People were sharing, in the beginning of the hippie story, everybody was sharing. You just went to people with long hair, even when you traveled in Europe, people were hitchhiking to the North, to the South, to meet other people with long hair, and they took you home, you stayed with them...
Eddie: But there are these other types too, they didn't like to take something, because they thought if I take something I will have to pay it back. So there would be food, or things to take. I'd say: "Come on, eat man, eat" They were afraid to take something, they didn't want to reciprocate. I didn't want anything back. But after they stayed for a while, they got into it. Because I didn't have enough money to feed everybody, and I was just full out there. I guess people were suspicious, why is he doing this, what's the ulterior motive, what is he getting out of this? Ah he's an old man, he's afraid to be alone. And blah, blah, blah... you know things like that. Fredo: In the beginning you had many people around you 
Eddie: Yeah, yeah. When I would go to town to get a shave, all these people would be like, "Hey, hey Eddie, where are you going?" I'd say that I'm going to the barber's shop. All the guys were coming because all the girls were at my place, the girls were coming because the guys were there, so. 
Fredo: But there were many mothers and kids, and everybody was taking care of each other, very friendly vibration... 
Eddie: Ah yeah. See that hand. I was born with that hand. No cuts. This should have been two fingers, and this should have been two fingers. See how much bigger this finger is than this, its two fingers. It should have been split up while I was in my mother's womb. I guess, but it didn't happen. I think the strength of five fingers is in three, so strong this hand. 
Fredo: I found a kid in Poona, we have a cobbler in one corner, always a very nice guy, and I take him my shoes. You go to other cobblers, they tell you 100-150 rupees. And this guy, the opposite ~ 10 rupees, 15 rupees, very nice guy. He sits on the corner and he does all this. And I really like the guy, so whenever he says 10 rupees, I give him 20 rupees. And then one day, he says this is my kid. A nice kid about 8-10 years old and he said he has a problem. He has his fingers like this, grown together. Then we started to ask some friends, are there any organizations that takes care of this, some NGO. Then one day a friend of mine said, you just go to Google, go to NGO Poona. And we saw one in the neighborhood, in Hadapsar. I phoned and talked to a few people and they said, yeah we do this kind of thing. They said who's the guy? I said the guy, he's a cobbler, and he's poor. So we got this guy connected, and the people came to see, and now they are going to do the operation. First the kid has to go to school, finish his exams and things like that and next month they're gonna operate him. But did you have somebody in the family, maybe which had that also?
Eddie: I have four brothers and sisters, they all have ten fingers. I used to keep my hands in my pockets, so people wouldn't notice (In an old crone's voice) "Why do you only have two fingers on your hand?" I would say: "Why do you have five?"